---
title: I've officially been here for a year
---

Woo-hoo!

Just came back from a three-week vacation (actually came back on Saturday the
14th). It was quite enjoyable, except for the slight interruptions when my
network went down. That threatened to delay the release of my company's (<a
href="http://www.synapsesoftware.net/">Synapse Software</a>, a division of
Synaptogenesis, Inc.) first iPhone app, but we managed to recover quickly and
have now submitted it to the app store for review. With any luck, we'll start
earning our first pennies of revenue from the app by the end of the month.

The next few months should be interesting. At the lab, I am to be split in half;
that is, half of my time I'll be working on the lab's biggest contract so we can
play a little game of catch-up, while the other half of the time I'll be working
toward submitting a proposal for some Computational Neuroscience work in visual
processing I plan to do, eventually for my dissertation.

At Synapse, we will be moving on to applications for other clients also oriented
toward mobile marketing, thanks to some contacts we've made during the course of
our first endeavor. As we've already solved many of the problems we expect to
encounter on future applications, each of our successive apps in this vein
should be quicker to release.

At home...well, there really isn't much exciting to be said. I generally end up
just eating dinner, taking a break from working, sleeping, and waking up the
next morning to do more of the same. This semester, I'll try to go back to my
trend of taking Sunday off, but we'll see how that works out.
