---
title: Long time, no write
---

Well, it's been a while. Truth of the matter is that I've been incredibly busy.
That's what happens when you're working a full-time job and start your own
company (which amounts to another full-time job plus some extra, all of which
you don't get paid for immediately) along with some other extra academia-related
items that have a tendency to take up some more time.

Good news is that the comoany's starting to take off. The initial iPhone app was
a success, but we underestimated the potential of the business model we were
after, so it's been a mixed bag. We've proven to ourselves (and our potential
customers) that we can carry out the work we say we can carry out in a timely
fashion and we have a sample iPhone app that we can use as a demo for that line
of products and similar efforts.

Our second success is the release of <a
href="http://synapsesoftware.net/products/">BlindSpotter</a>, a physiologic
blind spot mapper designed to be used by the relatively niche and captive market
of Functional Neurologists. Not much can be said due to the whole corporate
environment and a desire to refrain from making statements that may or may not
end up being true in the future, but we have some contacts and things are
looking good.

Our Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) effort is steaming ahead quite
well, which should provide (assuming we win the award) a little bit of money for
some fun research down the road. We're also about to start on another contract
which should benefit both the company and our grad student pockets.

So far, the company is looking to be a Good Idea, and my goals for the end of
our first year in business are turning a profit (a real profit, as in, we can
start paying ourselves a decent salary for the work we do) and thinking about
moving into a real office and possibly expanding. If some of the projects we're
currently starting turn out, even if not in the way we currently intend for them
to turn out, those goals could be here sooner than expected.

I know I'm not doing real well at keeping in touch with everybody from New
Jersey and Pennsylvania, but I haven't forgotten. I just haven't had the time.
Expect some phone calls in the next few weeks. Hopefully I'll be able to wiggle
a few minutes into my schedule here and there. I keep telling people not to ask
me about free time; I don't have any. Ask me about unscheduled time, and I'll
make sure I'm not doing anything else for that time slot. When I'm not busy
doing something scheduled, I guarantee there's something else that can keep me
busy that needs to get done.

Oh, right...I almost forgot. Today is our first day of semi-frozen
precipitation. I suppose it's snow, but it's not sticking real well. It appears
that by this time last year, we'd already gotten some snow and it had already
melted. This fall has been unusual for Colorado, but I'm told that there's no
such thing as "usual" weather patterns for Colorado. At some point it gets cold
and maybe snows; we call that winter. Sometime after that, it gets warm again
and stays sunny for a while; we call that summer. The two windy spells in
between are called spring and fall. Weather can't be predicted; it just happens.

Were this a real blog, I'd suggest leaving comments letting me know what you're
up to. Unfortunately, it's not, so you can't. Instead, I recommend giving me a
call or sending me an email unless I beat you to it. Maybe I'll acknowledge it.
No promises on when the next update will be.
