---
title: The new and improved PHP version
---

That's right. I did it. Like I said I would yesterday.

It is still in its infant phases, so I still edit things via text files.
However, the PHP does make it so that I don't necessarily have to put HTML in my
posts unless I want crazy things like <b>bold</b>, <i>italics</i>, or
<u>underlined</u>. However, I do plan on making a simple "admin" interface, so
I'll post a release of the code when I do that.

Some other things the software doesn't do: pagination (so right now if I write
hundreds of posts, they'll all be on the same page and take forever to load),
multiple images (it always displays the image at the top of the post), and
comments from visitors (that will likely be in version 0.2 or so).

Also, while I'm writing, I may as well proclaim today's news. I baked some
applesauce bread from a recipe on the package of brown sugar (of all things)
I've been using to make my morning oatmeal taste not so bland. I modified the
recipe to replace raisin bran with oatmeal and omitted the nutmeg, and I
reproduce the recipe (with annotations) here for your enjoyment.

<ul>
  <li>2 eggs</li>
  <li>16 oz. (1 pint) applesauce</li>
  <li>2 cups raisin bran cereal (I used oatmeal, which worked well)</li>
  <li>2 1/2 cups all-purpose flour</li>
  <li>2 1/2 teaspoons baking powder</li>
  <li>1 teaspoon salt (I omitted it, as I don't believe in salt</li>
  <li>1/2 teaspoon baking soda</li>
  <li>1 teaspoon ground cinnamon</li>
  <li>1/4 teaspoon ground nutmeg (I omitted it; I didn't have any in my
  apartment</li>
  <li>1/4 cup vegetable oil</li>
  <li>1 cup dark brown sugar, firmly packed (I used Sugar in the Raw, as my dark
  brown sugar had...clumped a bit too much for accurate measurement)</li>
  <li>1/2 cup nuts, coarsely chopped (I omitted; I failed to read the recipe
  thoroughly before shopping and don't keep nuts around)</li>
</ul>

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Grease 9x5x3-inch loaf pan. In a small bowl,
combine eggs, applesauce, and raisin bran (oatmeal). Let stand 10 minutes (I
presume this is to make the raisin bran somewhat soggy, so it probably doesn't
hurt to let oatmeal sit a bit longer so you don't feel like you're eating raw
fiber when you enjoy the finished product). Stir. In large bowl, stir together
flour, baking powder, salt, baking soda, and spices. (Since Sugar in the Raw is
considerably less sticky than dark brown sugar, I mixed it in with the dry
ingredients, as well.) Stir vegetable oil, brown sugar, and nuts into cereal
mixture. Add all at once to dry ingredients and stir just until moist. Turn into
loaf pan. Bake 60-70 minutes (it actually ended up being about 80 minutes here
in CO) or until tester inserted in center comes out clean. Let cool 15 minutes
before removing from pan.

<small>NOTE: This blog is no longer built with PHP</small>
